I feel that I need to explain why I entered the 2nd year of university immediately after high school and what circumstances brought me to that decision.

Firstly, I've always liked challenging myself. My tutor used to explain me the material of the 11th grade when I was in the 8th. I hardly understood anything at that time, but just a year later, in the 9th grade, I solved the 11th grade problems flawlessly. At the end of the 9th grade I started practicing with the IPhO problems. In our country only 11-graders are admitted to the IPhO team, though that didn't make me hesitate for a moment. It was quite difficult at first, but a year later I entered the IPhO team as the absolute winner of the selection exams, being 1 year younger than all of my teammates. As experience has shown, it's fruitful to load me with excessively tough material and give me time for practice, so that I'd acquire all the support information and develop intuitive understanding of the topic by myself. Getting ready for the 1st year exams was a very demanding goal, after all I managed to achieve it: I passed all the exams with excellent grades.

In addition, I had many friends and acquaintances from the group that entered Taras Shevchenko University in 2015. I participated in the selection exams for IPhO and in the IPhO itself, and there I got in touch with 9 of my future close friends. Later I found out that 7 of them had entered the Physics department of Taras Shevchenko university. Next year the selection exams didn't bring as many friends into my life, and I dreamed to study with the previous group. That group had finished the 1st year when I was to enter the university. So, the only way to catch up with them was to pass the 1st year exams quickly and to join the group as a sophomore. I appreciate studying with people who I know well, and this was an incentive to do what I've done.

Also, I want to tell more about my hobbies.

The most beloved one is certainly cycling. My parents bought my first bike when I was three, and I cycled around the city at the age of 6. I practice this kind of sports in summer, and as it is too hot during the day, I prefer to go out in the evening. What is not common is that I prefer urban roads and avenues rather than calm and peaceful countryside. The city is so beautiful in the evening, and I have time to relax and think.

Another hobby that I developed in the early childhood is table tennis. I used to play with my parents, and after that with my peers, from the age of 8. I quickly gained gaming experience, and at the age of 10 I used to beat almost all of the locals. At that point I lost my interest, and started playing again with my groupmates only about 5 months ago.

Finally, I like practicing chess. During a period of my life I planned to become a professional chess player, and only physics managed to replace chess. Still, none of my groupmates knows how to play chess, and I have little possibility to practice (playing online isn't as much interesting). I still remember how the figures move, but my skills are not in the best condition as they used to be a couple of years ago.