[Essays 1][Please tell us more about your cultural background and identity in the space below.]

After visiting one-third of Ukrainian big cities in the last four years, I can avoid a pitfall of generalization: regions of Ukraine are highly diversified. The restrained temperament of the inhabitants of my hometown contrasts brightly with Odessa's affability and unique humor, a staple of its culture. A tradition of glorifying old Ukrainian traditions and commitment to the national language is what makes Western mentality distinctive, so Lviv is unique with its authentic spirit. Now, I study at Kyiv University, the place that attracts students from all over Ukraine. It is where the diversity of cultures and backgrounds thrives. We speak a broad spectrum of languages from pure Russian to pure Ukrainian and stick to sometimes controversial beliefs. However, differences do not prevent us from finding common ground.


[Essays 2][How does MIT align with your goals (e.g., academic, personal, career, extracurricular, etc.)? (200-250 words)]

In high school years, I devoted myself to the Olympiad movement since the community I was raised amid has shaped my perception of science as the foundation of everything. Although the olympiads pushed the boundaries of my knowledge, they did not give a clear idea of what science looks like in real life.

Fortunately, preparation for the International Physics Olympiad gave me a look through numerous advanced branches of modern physics. The previous years' problems presented models of real researches that required to conduct calculations according to both the experimental data and the theoretical framework.

So my acquaintance with the concept of the LIGO observatory happened through estimating some parameters of relativistic dissipation from the black hole system, emitting first detected gravitational waves. Going further into it, I felt compelled to concentrate all the energy on future researches in cooperation with LIGO and other labs after my Olympiad career.

We are not able to comprehend all the mystery of reality, yet we can go deeper. My humble contribution, along with other scientists, might help the MIT Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Space Research to do that. Maybe our generation is the one to understand the nature of dark matter and dark energy.

I want to be one of those dedicated people, from novice students to the greatest professors, gathered for something that matters. To be a part of the MIT family where curiosity makes us go beyond the realm of possibility and take risks. It is where science is born.


[Essays 3][Please discuss why you are considering transferring from your current college or university. (200-250 words)]

Accustomed to being surrounded by the most motivated and committed representatives of the Ukrainian intellectual elite from childhood, I want to maintain this unique spirit throughout my life and make it work for humanity. The MIT community is close to my aspirations in nature, as it is grounded in limitless imagination, rapport, and risk-taking -- the integral parts of innovation.
 
In our reference frame, we take some position on the imaginary scale of scientific development. Though moving forward along this scale by transferring your knowledge into real researches and projects is crucial, it is not enough for the progress. Sometimes the direction must be changed as you should return to the initial position and give acceleration to those who stand there - encourage the younger generations, making the first step in science, to keep this mechanism of evolution alive.
 
I feel compelled to make my humble contribution to engaging Ukrainian kids into STEM before being absorbed in serious science at MIT. Therefore, I decided to spend one year at my current university to take the opportunity to teach my followers and promote the popularity of Olympiads.
 
As for my future career, I see MIT as the only place that can provide all the conditions for development, be it scientific resources or financial support for projects. I see it as learning, attempting, failing, struggling, and rejoicing together with those who live the same. Real science is far from the ideal theoretical models I am used to, but that is the beauty of it.


[Essays 4][At MIT, we bring people together to better the lives of others. MIT students work to improve to their communities in different ways, from tackling the world’s biggest challenges to being a good friend. Describe one way in which you have contributed to your community, whether in your family, the classroom, your neighborhood, etc. (200-250 words)]

Indifference and boredom are all I got in response from the young audience after articulating about optics concepts at the board. Most of the students seemed to have lost the thread of my thoughts. Covering too much, I failed to clarify crucial details, apparently, obvious for me but not for those who were hearing it for the first time. Starting out enthusiastically, I ended up deeply disappointed as my first teaching experience turned out to be a flop. 
 
A thorough analysis of the previous mistakes made my second performance during the next school self-government day more impactful. Trying to explain things clearly and engaging the most apathetic students in lively discussions, I managed to succeed in the ultimate mission to ignite in students a passion for thinking - willing to elaborate on our topic, the class asked for one more lesson.
 
After being enrolled in university, I have immersed in preparing high school students for the physics olympiads, regularly getting their brilliant results in a reward. Unfortunately, the Ukrainian educational system aims at passing final examinations rather than developing residents' intellectual skills, distorting the initial concept of learning. Speaking from my experience, participating in olympiads is a way to find yourself as a thinker but not a learner who studies for the sake of meeting particular requirements. The current purpose of tutoring is to shape students' perception of thinking as the core of human existence, and the most effective way is to interest them by means of complicated and intriguing problems.


[Essays 5][Tell us about the most significant challenge you've faced or something that didn't go according to plan. How did you manage the situation? (200-250 words)]

``Female intelligence is not designed for solving non-trivial problems.'' It was hard to hear.
 
My strongest passion since my sophomore year was to succeed in the International Physics Olympiad. Being just one step from the goal, during the last and the most significant preparatory course, I was forced to believe that science comprehension is beyond my means. 
 
I had been tackling theoretical problem sets for months, admiring the elegance of physical laws. Now, we had to put knowledge into practice. Our new professor was skeptical about my yearning to embrace the structure of reality through the laboratory equipment: ``It is not the woman's thing.''
 
However, it was the only chance to develop crucial experimental skills. Trying to delve into underlying scientific concepts beyond merely superficial understanding, I could not stop questioning. Yet it was misunderstood as evidence of female incompetence and led the professor to abstract me from the experiments. He firmly insisted that I give up preparations or at least switch to simpler tasks, but I stood my ground. Struggling to prevent insecurity from taking hold of me, I dared to embark on a sophisticated problem in thermodynamics, albeit it was barely a chance to solve it.
 
The setup had been abandoned since a mechanism for measuring the pressure was broken. It took me two days to develop a theoretical framework for defining the unknown value through indirect measurements. The professor was overwhelmed, observing the right answer derived from hardly desperate setup. He told me to keep it up.


[Additional Information][No application can meet the needs of every individual. If you think that additional information or material will give us a more thorough impression of you, please include it here.]

Besides physics, a significant part of my life is drawing. If you want to view some of my artworks, please, follow the link: https://photos.app.goo.gl/HpaZ2PZcB3ZLmmtA8

First, early curiosity and the feeling about the existence of the supreme structure manifested in the form of art. At the age of 13, I entered the Kharkiv Repin Art School and studied there for three years in an accelerated program.  After graduation, I even got an offer from the professor of Kharkiv State Academy of Design and Fine Arts to enter that college. Looking at the world through the prism of creative imagination, I was going to direct my energies into art and pursue a career as an architect. And even though I became later fascinated by physics, I still consider art as an inherent part of my personality.

Logic and order, I had been searching for, started to transpire through the formulas and fundamental laws. I remember the day during the preparation for the final of the Young Physicist Tournament when my older teammate familiarized me with integrals and their application for solving problems for the first time. Seemly nothing out of the ordinary, but it turned my perception of physics upside down. It was no longer a set of fragmented phenomena.  Math-based interconnections formed marvelous clarity of the structure where scattering pieces of knowledge started to combine.

Sadly, doing science in our country is a lost cause because, due to the lack of funding for this industry, it can hardly provide even minimal income. Moreover, experimental physics is almost out of the question as we have no conditions for its prosperity in Ukraine. However, there are still some people who devote their lives to physics, choosing it over affluence and career opportunities and doing all in the name of an idea. They take advantage of every minimal opportunity, provided by the government, to get schoolchildren interested in physics. Therefore, they do their best to organize student Olympiads. I admire these people and appreciate every opportunity to spend time in their society. So, Olympiads is one of my warmest memories, not only because of the adrenaline rush during competing but mostly because of the entourage. Joining professors and teachers as a member of the jury after graduating from school allowed me to see from inside how goes the process of holding Olympiads. With the lack of any financial support, everything depends only on their initiative. Commitment and love of science, which drives their actions, have strongly impacted me and instilled a passion. Now I feel compelled to continue pursuing this mission of taking science forward and exploring what surrounds us, no matter what it takes.

