Please discuss why you are considering transferring from your current college or university.

[295 B-l-]

My home country in general and my current university in particular cannot provide me a level of tuition that meets my demands and ambitions. There're also issues with scientific research and finding a future career.

Firstly and mainly, the actual financial situation in my country is dreadful. Money is granted mostly for military expenses, so there's no budget left for the educational system. Less money is paid to tutors and instructors. As a consequence, the curriculum is being shortened and optional courses eliminated. I agree with the fact that my university contains a number of outstanding instructors and professors, but this won't help me if their classes are merely closed.

In addition, there's a lack of funding of scientific research in our state. There's not a single research program supported by the university. Scientists in Ukraine are being fired and even whole National Academy of Sciences departments are being closed or merged. In order to find a scientific supervisor and a future job that is capable of maintaining my living standards I have to apply for an appropriate university abroad.

MIT, on the contrary, offers a diversity of optional courses which I'd like to take. Also, I'm well aware that the financial investments in America and especially in MIT are stably maintained within the research programs, and jobs are offered to the most active participants of these programs. I'm sure that MIT provides all the material and informational bases which are essential for my ambitions but unfortunately not available at my university.

When I achieve the high level of education in MIT, I'll try hard to maintain the level of science in my home land. Making Ukraine competitive in the field of science with the most highly developed countries is one of my main goals.

[247 B-l-]

My home country in general and my current university in particular cannot provide me a level of tuition that meets my demands and ambitions.

Firstly and mainly, the actual financial situation in my country is dreadful. Money is granted mostly for military expenses, so there's no budget left for the educational system. As a consequence, the curriculum is being shortened and optional courses eliminated. I agree with the fact that my university contains a number of outstanding instructors and professors, but this won't help me if their classes are merely closed.

In addition, there's a lack of funding of scientific research in our state. In order to find a scientific supervisor and a future job that is capable of maintaining my living standards I have to apply for an appropriate university abroad.

MIT, on the contrary, offers a diversity of optional courses which I'd like to take. Also, I'm well aware that the financial investments in America and especially in MIT are stably maintained within the research programs, and jobs are offered to the most active participants of these programs. I'm sure that MIT provides all the material and informational bases which are essential for my ambitions but unfortunately not available at my university.

When I achieve the high level of education in MIT, I'll try hard to maintain the level of science in my home land. Making Ukraine competitive with the most highly developed countries in the field of science is one of my main goals.

[240 A vp]

I consider myself very motivated and aspired to self-improvement, and I have always tried to keep my skills and knowledge up-to-date.

In high school I was driven by the dream to become a winner of an international olympiad. I communicated a lot with my friend Taras. He is one year older, so it was a demanding task to tackle problems assigned to him. We cultivated an atmosphere of cooperation and rivalry which led us both to IPhO titles.

After my IPhO victories the olympiads were over for me as a contestant. Earlier I had wished to stay in Ukraine and continue contributing to Olympiads as a jury member. Anyhow, things have changed as time passed. I was motivated by the 1st place on the National Minor Academy of Sciences research competition, and I decided to focus on scientific research. In time I figured out MIT is the best, from all the choices I have had.

MIT is one of the leading universities in the field of research and technology. I'm convinced that there I will join a productive community of helpful professors and devoted peers, which will continue inspiring me to advance in cutting-edge branches of physics. Professional physicists' supervision and best resources of information will be available, which, combined with my passion of physics, will give birth to lots of innovative ideas.

Therefore I'm looking forward to entering the MIT community, the best surrounding possible in the nowadays​ world.