How does MIT align with your goals (e.g., academic, personal, career, extracurricular, etc.)?

[246]

From a rather early age I became interested in science. After a few years of study I became the absolute winner of 3 national olympiads, but when I was taken to the International Physics Olympiad, I took a mere 64th place among a little less than 400 contestants. That was a sign of what I had been told and what I had expected: science in my country is far behind the international scene.

The result of the second International olympiad inspired me to become a professional physicist, and also brought a great deal of self-confidence and took away all psychological bounds. Prof. Vilchinskiy offered me to try applying for the second year of the Kyiv Taras Shevchenko university in order to skip the classes I had already taken while preparing for the olympiad. This proposition attracted me because I would learn something new instead of losing time for the courses, and also I would see my friends from the previous olympiad, which had been a year older than me.

Finally, I entered the second year of the university and completed all the necessary exams of the 1st year. Now I'm studying science and getting ready for the English exams which are obligatory for entering the MIT. Massachusetts Institute of Technology provides everything I want: suitable educational environment, skilled and talented teachers, and especially funded research programs. My goal is to become a famous scientist, and MIT is almost the only place which can escalate this temptation.

[248 Ld-]

From a rather early age I became interested in science. After several years of studies I became the absolute winner of 4 National Olympiads in Physics and got silver and gold at the International Physics Olympiads in 2015-16.

Despite the outstanding tutors surrounding me I’ve realized that in my country science is far behind the worldwide trends, which are widely proposed and researched at MIT.

During the preparations for the Olympiads, I passed a number of specialized math and physics courses intended for the university students. That's why I convinced Prof. Vilchinkiy from Kyiv Taras Shevchenko University to allow me complete the 1st year exams and study together with the sophomores. Thanks to this I don't need to waste my time on the material I've already studied. I feel that I am able to do even more and cover a vast amount of knowledge which is not provided anywhere in my country, but is available at MIT.

MIT gathers students with similar views from all over the world and collects globally known scientists to read lectures. I'm also informed about the multitude of the undergrad and graduate scientific programs. I want to work and share ideas with as devoted colleagues as I am, so MIT programs are perfectly suitable for helping to achieve this goal.

Also, I like to have an active break, keen on playing table tennis, chess and cycling. I know that MIT supports sports and hobbies, and wish to take part in these extracurricular activities.

[243 Ld-]

From a rather early age I became interested in science. After several years of studies I became the absolute winner of 4 National Olympiads in Physics and got silver and gold at the International Physics Olympiads in 2015-16.

However, despite the outstanding tutors surrounding me I’ve realized that in my country science is far behind the worldwide trends, which are widely proposed and researched at MIT.

During the preparations for the Olympiads, I passed a number of specialized math and physics courses intended for the university students. That's why I convinced Prof. Vilchinkiy from Kyiv Taras Shevchenko University to allow me complete the 1st year exams and study together with the sophomores. I feel that I am able to do even more and cover a vast amount of knowledge which is not provided anywhere in my country, but is available at MIT.

MIT gathers students with similar views from all over the world and collects globally known scientists to read lectures. I'm also informed about the multitude of the undergrad and graduate scientific programs. I want to work and share ideas with as devoted colleagues as I am, and use these ideas for promoting science and improving our lives. MIT programs are perfectly suitable for helping to achieve this goal.

Also, I like to have an active break, keen on playing table tennis, chess and cycling. I know that MIT supports sports and hobbies, and wish to take part in these extracurricular activities.

[250 Ld-K]

From an early ages i, as a really curious child, was baffled with question of how the universe works so my parents opened for me an incredible world of science.Thanks to this amazing expearence it became my passion. Then in school I started to learn deeply physics and mathematics.  After several years of hard studies I became the absolute winner of 4 National Olympiads in Physics and got silver and gold at the International Physics Olympiads in 2015-16.

However, despite the outstanding tutors surrounding me I’ve realized that in my country science is far behind the worldwide trends, which are widely proposed and researched at MIT.

During the preparations for the Olympiads, I passed a number of specialized math and physics courses intended for the university students. That's why I convinced Prof. Vilchinkiy from Kyiv Taras Shevchenko University to allow me complete the 1st year exams and study together with the sophomores. I feel that I am able to do even more and cover a vast amount of knowledge which is not provided anywhere in my country, but is available at MIT.

MIT gathers students with similar views from all over the world and collects globally known scientists to read lectures. Furthermore I'm  informed about the multitude of the undergrad and graduate scientific programs. I want to work and share ideas with as devoted colleagues as I am, and use these ideas for promoting science and improving our lives. MIT programs are perfectly suitable for helping to achieve this goal.

[244 A vp]

My main goal is to gain a deeper understanding of the beautiful phenomena surrounding us, and I'm sure MIT is the best place to study physics.

These are merely words, however I've already appreciated the usefulness of the MIT Open Courseware. I used these materials to prepare for the Olympiads and exams, and they helped me a lot! What I mostly like is explaining the content in connection with other topics and videos which reveal the phenomena in live action.

As I watched online, professors in MIT explain the material clearly and emphasize on crucial facts. If I have a trouble with understanding a concept by myself, I believe that the professor will find a minute to answer my question.

I'm really passionate about chatting on science topics with mates that understand me and share my interest. I watched videos of MIT projects: one in robotics, and another one about Fermilab. I would love to enter such a project and make a contibution to the global science.

I like sharing my knowledge with others, and leading a physics class in a school would provide me a lot of experience and maybe even a job.

In addition, I was pleased when I found clubs for all kinds of sports that I like - chess, table tennis and cycling. I'm looking forward to playing with new partners and cycling around America.

No other university provides all of these features, and MIT does. Then why should I hesitate?