My acquaintance with the applicant began from the 9th grade, I used to teach geography in her class. Christina was not completely dedicated to my subject, still she was one of the best in the class. I conducted team-work talks in class, and Christina often was the spokesperson. She actively participated in the discussion, and organized the team to split the problem in steps and work in parallel.

Also, I used to be the team leader of our region at the National Internet Olympiad in Odessa, and Christina was in my team in 2015 and 2016. She not only took the best prizes among all members of our team, but also drove the communication between different teams. Thanks to her, now she and her classmates have a lot of friends all over Ukraine.

Advance in science provides a huge benefit for Christina, even in geography. Complex geophysical phenomena are often based on a set of basic physical principles, so she was far ahead of others in describing them. For example, I asked the class to explain polar days and nights. Christina immediately provided the correct explanation: the axis of rotation of the Earth is tilted; so the sun never goes below horizon on the north pole, as far as it is closer to the sun than the south pole. Usually I require students to memorize the geographical facts, but Christina simply does not need it: she derives them on-the-go! In addition, the girl used to give short presentations about technology in geography and ecology, such as atmospheric probes and weather prediction, and pros and cons of atomic power stations.

After the 10th grade, Christina went to a physics summer camp with the class, where I was a supervisor. Only the best students of the lyceum are admitted to this camp, and she was one of the first to be accepted. During the summer school, students are given daily problem sets which they solve in teams, and in the evening they report their solutions. Christina was the captain of her team, and she was the reporter of most of the problems. I even remember a problem which no single student managed to solve - except for Christina!

Now, Christina is in my economics class. She's confident in the subject and enjoys it, because it involves a lot of mathematical analysis.

I've had many talented students which were admitted to American universities, and Christina has all the qualities that those students had. I'm confident that at MIT she will be an outstanding student	and a successful scientist.