I first encountered Christina during the National Olympiad. We used to chat and play games after the theoretical examination, and that time the team of my region invited her to have a rest with us. After the game, I had a talk with her. Christina told me about herself and her excitement in physics, and I decided to develop a connection with this talented and bright person. I was enchanted by her stories of her home town Lviv and, when I finally managed to get here, she took me to its most iconic landmarks such as the High Castle, and made my experiences in this city truly unforgivable. We live in different cities, still I often visit her in Lviv. We have had a wonderful time together, and I've never regretted the time and effort spent.

Christina easily finds a topic for the conversation. When I introduced her to the team of Kharkiv region, she got to know everyone very quickly and, at the end of the day, she confidently lead the discussion about the solutions of the problems. In addition, Christina enjoys helping others, she says that it also provides experience for her. The girl often assists her classmates in solving physics problems, she even initiated special classes for problem solving. Her friends, including me, can rely on her in any circumstances, Christina will anyway support as much as she can. This is what makes Christina such a great friend and an extremely valuable companion. 

About Christina's academics, she is remarkably talented in physics. I regularly give her lessons, during which I explain physics theory, help her solve problems, and share my experience about olympiads. I'm amused by the deepness of her mind and her nonstandard ideas. She often finds solutions that are different from mine, and oftentimes they are easier! The problems that she tackles are outstandingly complicated for her age: for example, she often solves the International Olympiads of past years and even the qualification exams of the Quantum Field Theory department! (it usually admits students who completed 2 years of university)

Christina is not only gifted in science, but also greatly passionate about it. She shows genuine excitement about my lessons, so communicating with her brings me pleasure. She already found a topic that interests her particularly: it is quantum engineering. Christina is already familiar with Schrodinger equations and the exclusion principle, and I've seen her several times reading ``Physical Review'' and ``Journal of Applied Physics'' articles.
$$$

 Usually I conduct paid classes, but this is the only exception: I'm inspired by the girl's brilliant results and I'm happy to help her win the International Olympiad.

$$$

With this background in physics, Christina is a very artistic person. When she first showed me her paintings which she made when she was 12, it was hard for me to believe her. They seemed too natural and professional, so I was deeply impressed by her talent. Christina uses her artistic skills to visualize physical setups, and organically combines them with her brilliant scientific knowledge to yield the best productivity.

Finally, when it comes to sport, Christina is again in the center of the action. She is an advanced swimmer, and playing in the water helps her relax after study time and motivate herself for further improvement. She very quickly learned how to ride a bike, and we used to go for long rides together.

In my opinion, MIT is the best match for her. She will become a successful scientist by taking physics courses and UROPs, and also explore art and sports in HASS arts and PE classes. If you have any concerns about Christina, feel free to contact me at shumaev99@gmail.com.
