1 What are the first words that come to mind to describe the applicant?

2 Describe the quality of the applicant's intellect and hard work. Please comment on the student's originality of thought and ability to grasp difficult concepts. In what ways might you distinguish this student's academic performance from that of other able students?

3 Are there unusual circumstances in the applicant's case (personal or academic) that you feel we should know?

4 Additional



I Kreminskiy


[]

Concentrated, outstandingly gifted, positive-minded, laterally thinking, emotionally strong, purposeful, positive, persistent in her goals.


[]

I meet lots of talented students every year, and Christina Diug is certainly one of the most memorable ones. Christina is a remarkable painter, thanks to her exceptional spatial imagination and superior intuition. This also helps her in science: she visualizes complex mechanical and electromagnetic structures in her mind, easily finds key patterns and so gets the shortest and most elegant solution. Christina possesses one of the rare qualities that brings her to success: she enjoys challenging herself. If she finds a problem that she can not yet solve, she tries to work the solution out on her own until she finds it, and never gives up. Christina is intuitive and highly creative, so she successfully draws deep and nontrivial analogies to approach the hardest problems in an original way, much better than all the other students.


[]

Christina is one of the best students that I know, not only in terms of academic grades. She studies hard, and she has already achieved outstanding results: she is a multiple winner of the National Olympiad in Physics, and a winner of 8 regional contests in different subjects: mathematics, physics and chemistry. Now she is preparing for the International Olympiad in Physics, which will be held in Portugal. I'm sure that she will return with a high prize. She has a unique combination of intellectual strength and hardworking, willing to improve herself, that will help her win.

With this, Christina has a lot of other talents. She has been a brilliant painter from childhood. I think she would easily become famous for her paintings, if she had not chosen the path of science several years ago. Christina is an extrovert and communicative person, she enjoys sharing her knowledge with friends. Also, she is wonderful at sports, such as swimming and cycling, which she practices regularly to stay fit and athletic.


[]

I first met Christina at her first National Olympiad, when she was in the 8th grade. I was taking part in the grading process, and I viewed the contestants' works. Christina's work struck me for its original, nontrivial solutions. She did not want to follow the mainstream, and used her own, elegant and completely correct, methods. Unfortunately, at that olympiad she did not take a prize. She was very upset, but nevertheless, that did not break her. Christina has improved a lot since that time, and now she is one of the best physics students in the country. She is going to attend the International Olympiad in Physics, which is a competition for the best high school students in the world.

Usually I don't communicate with participants of the National Olympiad, but Christina is an exception. She is working hard to prepare for IPhO, and I'm happy to help her achieve her goal. We communicate regularly, and I give her advice on how to prepare most efficiently, sometimes we simply talk about her life and challenges.

I know Christina's physics teacher, who is the leader of Olympiads in physics in her city. She regularly visits special classes of preparation for Olympiads under his supervision, and I've only heard his positive feedback about her. Christina is working hard at physics, and at the same time preparing herself for MIT, by practicing SAT and TOEFL. I can imagine how challenging and time-consuming it is, and I'm fascinated by her performance.

Christina is outgoing and responsive. She loves solving problems with her classmates, and never refuses to help them. During the olympiads, she communicates a lot with members of other teams. Now she has lots of friends around the whole country.

Also, Christina is diversely educated. She loves painting, and she really does it wonderfully. I have seen one of her pictures, and I was amazed by its beauty and deepness. She likes doing 3D models in computer too, and I'm sure they are as graceful as her paintings.

In my opinion, Christina Diug is an exceptionally strong candidate for the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. I have no doubt she will become an outstanding student, and after that, a successful scientist. If you have any questions about Christina, please feel free to contact me.
