I Vilchinskiy [complete]

I have known Oleksandr Shumaiev since his first National Olympiad, at which he was the absolute winner. I am a jury member at the National Olympiads and Young Physicist Tournaments. I was impressed by his performance in these competitions. We got in touch during the selection exams for the International Olympiad in Physics IPhO 2016. Oleksandr was to solve a set of problems proposed by me, and he coped with this task with flying colors. He showed the best results in all of the exams, finishing with an enormous gap with the runner-up. 

I was the team leader at IPhO 2016, and I viewed Oleksandr's work on the Olympiad examinations. It reflected deep understanding of various areas of physics and scored high gold. After this I became sure that his knowledge covered the 1st year university study program. That's why I invited him to study at Kyiv Taras Shevchenko University and proposed to take the 1st year exams and begin studying the 2nd year program. We communicated a lot in August when he was preparing for these exams, and I gave him advice what subjects and topics should be revised. Eventually Oleksandr passed all exams with excellent scores, and was admitted as 2nd year student at Kyiv Taras Shevchenko University. I can add that I was in charge of one of his exams, namely in Analytic Geometry \& Linear Algebra, and I was pleasantly surprised by his aptitude and deep understanding of the material.

Now Oleksandr Shumaiev is studying in the 5th group of the Quantum Field Theory department under my supervision. I frequently meet with his instructors and receive only positive feedback about his academic achievements. Oleksandr shows great enthusiasm about taking part in scientific research. He decided to begin a research project under my supervision after his TOEFL and SAT exams. Oleksandr already has some experience in this field, as he has done the research of the Duboshinskii pendulum argumental oscillations.

Also, Oleksandr is very communicative, he enjoys sharing his knowledge and taking part in various faculty events. He used to communicate with members of other teams at the International Olympiads and made many new friends abroad. Oleksandr is going to volunteer for the Winter Physics School shortly to teach talented pupils from all over Ukraine. He also wants to participate in the National Physics Olympiad as a jury member. Oleksandr is very responsible about these events and is preparing diligently for them.

I enthusiastically recommend Oleksandr Shumaiev for the MIT Transfer Admission as one of my best students and I'm sure he will definitely succeed in his future studies and hopefully, numerous researches. If you have any questions concerning Oleksandr, please feel free to contact me.

 
II Maizelis [complete]

This letter is written to support Oleksandr Shumaiev application for the MIT admission.

My acquaintance with the applicant began about 3 years ago, when Oleksandr won the Regional Olympiad in Physics of the Kharkiv region. He was seemingly an ordinary 8-grader, however I quickly understood his high intellectual potential. I used to prepare the best students of the region to the National Olympiad in Physics. Oleksandr performed much better than other students, so I decided to train him personally for 2 weeks before the Olympiad. The result wasn't long to wait: Oleksandr became the absolute winner of the Olympiad. After this, however, he didn't want to quit, and I trained him further for the International Olympiad IPhO. Eventually Oleksandr managed to bear fruit by taking 2 medals (silver and gold) at the IPhO.

Olympiads were a passion for Oleksandr, however he also prepared himself for his future scientific career. He took part in the Young Physicist Tournament, and his team won in 2015. In the Tournament the participants are to solve research problems, namely they conduct a short research on a certain topic and then report their results and analysis to the jury members and members of other teams. The objectives set for the participants are similar to those of the scientists, so it was a valuable training for Oleksandr.

After the victory in the Tournament Oleksandr was full of inspiration, and he was willing to conduct a full-scaled research. I agreed to supervise him in his studies of argumental oscillations. Oleksandr researched the Duboshinskii pendulum and compared it with a quantum oscillator. He found the energy level values and specified conditions when a certain energy state is established. Oleksandr showed his best and I was positively impressed by his precise and productive ideas. He even wrote a paper with me as a second author and it is in print in the Journal of Applied Physics. I hope the paper will help scientists to make an invention.

With this, Oleksandr Shumaiev likes spending his time outside. He enjoys biking the city in the evening, and I found that some of my other students shared his hobby. Biking helps Oleksandr maintain his mood, passion of physics and psychological strength. What is more, he strengthens his relationship with his friends in this way. I'm sure that Oleksandr found a lot of friends at the IPhO, and I'm sorry I wasn't there with him.

Oleksandr will undoubtedly become a prominent scientist. I rate him exceptionally high among my other students and enthusiastically recommend him for the MIT Transfer program.


III Anisimov

I first met Oleksandr Shumaiev in 2013, during his first National Olympiad. However, we got in touch only in 2015, when Oleksandr was passing the qualification exams for the International Physics Olympiad IPhO. I am a marker at these exams, this means that I propose problems from past International Olympiads to the students and then evaluate their responses. Oleksandr got the highest score among all of the contestants. I was impressed by his highly accurate results and clearly formulated ideas. What is even more impressive, Oleksandr didn't hesitate to use nonstandard and complicated methods, and still succeeded in receiving correct results. I also conducted a lecture about plasma with the contestants, and Oleksandr seemed to understand almost all what I said, as I judged on the basis of the questions he asked.

My acquaintance with Oleksandr wasn't over after the qualification exams. I was one of the team leaders at IPhO 2015 and I supported the members of the national team and Oleksandr as one of them. He took silver at that Olympiad, however I was convinced that he didn't perform his best. I eventually turned out to be right: Oleksandr Shumaiev took 11th place and gold at the next IPhO in 2016.

After the second IPhO I learned from Oleksandr that he was going to enter Kyiv Taras Shevchenko University, where I work as an instructor. I wasn't surprised at all when I heard that Oleksandr was trying to pass the exams of the 1st year of the university in fall and enter the 2nd year simultaneously. This was the first time in my career when a student managed to skip the 1st year of studying, however I was sure that Oleksandr would succeed. I know his supervisor Dr. Stanislav Vilchinskiy well, he tracked Oleksandr's preparation to the 1st year exams. Oleksandr made a very strong positive impression on Dr. Vilchinskiy by the deepness of his knowledge, ability to grasp new material and revise previously acquired information in time shortage, as he had one month to get ready for all of the exams.

Oleksandr also possesses an important quality which will be highly useful in his future career: he enjoys doing scientific research. Oleksandr conducted a research on the Duboshinskii pendulum under supervision of Dr. Zakhar Maizelis. He wrote a paper based on his research and submitted it to one of the European mechanics journals.

I'm convinced that Oleksandr will succeed in his future academic studies and researches, that's why I strongly recommend him for the MIT admission program.
