1 What are the first words that come to mind to describe the applicant?

2 Describe the quality of the applicant's intellect and hard work. Please comment on the student's originality of thought and ability to grasp difficult concepts. In what ways might you distinguish this student's academic performance from that of other able students?

3 Are there unusual circumstances in the applicant's case (personal or academic) that you feel we should know?

4 Additional



[171]

Hardworking, intelligent, possessing outstanding skills in physics, constructive-minded, showing ability to find nontrivial approaches, communicative, productive, helpful.


[664 B]

Oleksandr is one of the most talented, hard-working, strong-minded and purposeful students I have ever met. He makes an impression of a highly apt student on all of his instructors. He easily comprehends new complicated concepts and methods and shows deep understanding of the topic. Oleksandr is very confident, he unhesitatingly tackles the most difficlult problems and never gives up. He is advanced in mathematics as well as physics, which helps him find alternative solutions to various problems in physics more effectively than other students. Oleksandr's developed spatial imagination and lateral thinking assist him in visualising and perfecting his ideas. 


[756 B-]

Oleksandr is a multiple winner of various competitions in physics. He is the absolute winner of 4 consecutive National Olympiads, twice a winner (silver and gold) of the International Olympiad IPhO, the absolute winner of the research work competiton among the members of the Minor Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, and the team-winner of  the National Young Physicists Tournament. Moreover, he won gold for Ukraine at IPhO 2016 first time since the last win of a Ukrainian participant in 2007. Oleksandr likes to use his knowledge in his life and to share it with others.

In addition, Oleksandr likes going in for sports. He enjoys playing table tennis and cycling. Also he plays chess very well and even has the title of Master of Sports Candidate in chess.


[2561]

I have known Oleksandr Shumaiev since his first National Olympiad, at which he was the absolute winner. I am a jury member at the National Olympiads and Young Physicist Tournaments, and also the team leader at the International Olympiads. I was impressed by his performance on all of these competitions. We got in touch during the selection exams for the International Olympiad in Physics IPhO 2016. Oleksandr was to solve a set of problems proposed by me, and he coped with this task with flying colors. He showed the best results in all of the exams, having an enormous gap with the runner-up. 

After Oleksandr had taken the gold medal at IPhO 2016, I became sure that his knowledge covered the 1st year study program of university. That's why I was quick to react to his request to allow him take the 1st year exams at Kyiv Taras Shevchenko University and begin studying the 2nd year program. We communicated a lot in August when he was preparing for these exams, and I gave him advice what subjects and topics should be revised. Eventually Oleksandr passed all exams with excellent scores, and was admitted to the 2nd year of Kyiv Taras Shevchenko University. I can add that I was in charge of one of his exams, namely in Analytic Geometry \& Linear Algebra, and I was pleasantly surprised by his aptitude and deep understanding of the material.

Now Oleksandr Shumaiev is studying in the 5th group of the Quantum Field Theory department which I supervise. I frequently meet with his instructors and receive only positive feedback about his academic achievements. Oleksandr shows great enthusiasm about taking part in scientific research. He decided to begin a research project under my supervision after his TOEFL and SAT exams. Oleksandr already has some experience in this field, as he has researched the argumental oscillations of the Duboshinskii pendulum.

Also, Oleksandr is very communicative, he enjoys sharing his knowledge and taking part in various faculty events. He used to communicate with members of other teams at the International Olympiads and found many new friends abroad. Oleksandr is going to volunteer for the Winter Physics School shortly, teaching talented pupils from all over Ukraine. He also wants to participate in the National Physics Olympiad as a jury member. Oleksandr is very responsible about these events and is preparing hard for them.

I enthusiastically recommend Oleksandr Shumaiev for the MIT Transfer Admission as one of my best students and I'm sure he will greatly succeed in his future studies and numerous researches.
