1 What are the first words that come to mind to describe the applicant?

2 Describe the quality of the applicant's intellect and hard work. Please comment on the student's originality of thought and ability to grasp difficult concepts. In what ways might you distinguish this student's academic performance from that of other able students?

3 Are there unusual circumstances in the applicant's case (personal or academic) that you feel we should know?

4 Additional


[]

Highly talented, diligent, responsible, having a remarkable skill to concentrate on the issue, determined, ingenious, willing to share knowledge, communicable.


[]

I have seen a lot of talented students from all over Ukraine during my life, still very few of them are as gifted and intellectual as Oleksandr Shumaiev is. In addition, Oleksandr has a fighting character, so he is able to devote most of his time and effort to physics and solve scientific problems more efficiently. He always tries to find a complete solution of a problem and never abandons the task on the halfway. Oleksandr attempts to find both mathematical and physical approaches, and their combination often gives birth to extraordinary and nontrivial ideas. He possesses an outstanding ability of lateral thinking, and flawlessly comprehends and uses difficult concepts which are often new for him. Oleksandr has shown himself as one of the best students at the university, and his strong positive impression on all of his instructors is reflected in his excellent grades.


[]

Oleksandr is considered one of the best students in the country not only on the basis of his academic grades. He is also the winner of a multitude of physics contests. Oleksandr won 4 National Olympiads in years 2013-16, qualified and won silver and gold at the International Physics Olympiad in 2015-16, his team took the 1st place in the National Young Physics Tournament in 2015. In addition, Oleksandr understands the importance of scientific research in his profession. He already has experience in conducting his own research. He studied the behavior of complicated mechanical systems, namely argumental oscillations, using the example of the Duboshinskii pendulum. Oleksandr wrote a paper on this topic together with his former supervisor Dr. Zakhar Maizelis, presented his work on the National Minor Academy of Science research competition and took the 1st place. I communicated with Dr. Maizelis who highly appreciated Oleksandr's hard research work.

I also heard about Oleksandr's achievements in sports. He likes cycling and playing chess, and he won several regional chess tournaments. In my opinion, Oleksandr didn't achieve remarkable results in chess only because he focused his efforts entirely on physics.


[]

I first met Oleksandr Shumaiev in 2013, during his first National Olympiad. However, we got in touch only in 2015, when Oleksandr was passing the qualification exams for the International Physics Olympiad IPhO. I am a marker at these exams, this means that I propose problems from past International Olympiads to the students and then evaluate their responses. Oleksandr got the highest score among all of the contestants. I was impressed by his highly accurate results and clearly formulated ideas. What is even more impressive, Oleksandr didn't hesitate to use nonstandard and complicated methods, and still succeeded in receiving correct results. I also conducted a lecture about plasma with the contestants, and Oleksandr seemed to understand almost all what I said, as I judged on the basis of the questions he asked.

My acquaintance with Oleksandr wasn't over after the qualification exams. I was one of the team leaders at IPhO 2015 and I supported the members of the national team and Oleksandr as one of them. He took silver at that Olympiad, however I was convinced that he didn't perform his best. I eventually turned out to be right: Oleksandr Shumaiev took 11th place and gold at the next IPhO in 2016.

After the second IPhO I learned from Oleksandr that he was going to enter Kyiv Taras Shevchenko University, where I work as an instructor. I wasn't surprised at all when I heard that Oleksandr was trying to pass the exams of the 1st year of the university in fall and enter the 2nd year simultaneously. This was the first time in my career when a student managed to skip the 1st year of studying, however I was sure that Oleksandr would succeed. I know his supervisor Dr. Stanislav Vilchinskiy well, he tracked Oleksandr's preparation to the 1st year exams. Oleksandr made a very strong positive impression on Dr. Vilchinskiy by the deepness of his knowledge, ability to grasp new material and revise previously acquired information in time shortage, as he had one month to get ready for all of the exams.

Oleksandr also possesses an important quality which will be highly useful in his future career: he enjoys doing scientific research. Oleksandr conducted a research on the Duboshinskii pendulum under supervision of Dr. Zakhar Maizelis. He wrote a paper based on his research and submitted it to one of the European mechanics journals.

I'm convinced that Oleksandr will succeed in his future academic studies and researches, that's why I strongly recommend him for the MIT admission program.