My willingness to enter Brown is directly connected with my academic interests. I want to specialize on several particular regions of science, and I understand clearly what I expect from my education.

My main field of interest is physics, namely theoretical research. I became curious about physics from a rather early age. I used to study this subject in school from the 7th grade. Still, I became seriously engaged into physics only a year later by taking part in Physics Olympiads. Winning a prize at an international olympiad became my goal and my incentive to study forward. Eventually, I managed to bear fruit by taking silver and gold at the International Physics Olympiad IPhO. After that I decided to proceed advancing in this branch of science so that my Olympiad results were not useless. I took part in the National Young Physicist Tournament, which is a competition that involves students conducting short researches. Under supervision of Dr. Zakhar Maizelis, I conducted a research on the Duboshinskii pendulum. We wrote a paper and submitted it to the Journal of Applied Physics. I hope it will help scientists to invent a new device, and I want to conduct even more researches in order to contribute to the global science even more.

The Olympiads in physics are also a passion for me. I participated in the National and International Olympiads during 4 years, and I found it amazing to challenge myself with the most difficult problems, compete for the title of the best physics scholar in the world, and visit new places in the world simultaneously. I'm so sorry that the scholar Olympiads are over for me, and I'd be very glad to participate in a similar event as a contestant or even as a jury member. This is why I'm going to be a member of the jury at the Ukraine National Olympiad 2017.

I expect to begin my own research while studying in the university, in order to continue during a graduate program and then apply for a postdoc position. I'm not yet concerned about which branch of physics to choose, thus I expect to make this choice during my undergraduate program.

My region of interest is not limited to theoretical physics. Computer science and engineering is highly demanded in the nowadays world, even in physics, and I consider myself having a consistent level of knowledge in these areas. I thing that the ability to apply calculations and make computer simulations will help me in my physics as well.