[Educational History 5.1][Please explain what you have been doing since you left school.]

I have been involved in a variety of educational and extracurricular activities since I left school.

In July 2016 I was to take part in the International Olympiad in Physics (IPhO), which I had been craving for a long time. I was admitted to a short course of preparation to the experimental exam of the Olympiad. The course was held in Kyiv in the middle of June and lasted for only 4 days, however it was a remarkable period of my life. I was enjoying my time with my friends from the national team for IPhO. Not only we conducted shared experiments and sought a deeper understanding of the background of natural effects that we were observing, but also we walked around the city and played various games in the evenings. Our preparation course coincided with the qualification exams for the International Astronomy Olympiad, so I found even more friends among the astronomers.

After my preparation course I had several weeks to practice solving problems for IPhO. I wasn't alone in my desire, my friend and classmate Sasha was also preparing for the Olympiad. We inspired and helped each other with the physics problems, and during breaks we went cycling around the place we used to live.

At last, the time of the Olympiad came. It was an unforgettable week! I met my teammates again and made lots of friends all around the world. I spent a marvellous time with my mates in CERN, the heart of global physics. We were taken to Lichtenstein and made a photo with its Minister of Foreign Affairs! We even found time to cycle around Zurich! I felt completely happy at the end when I was awarded gold, and a bit sad that this was the last olympiad I took part in as a pupil.

When I returned home after the Olympiad, I was full of self-confidence. I realized that I could pass the first year exams at the university during fall and start attending the lectures and seminars as a 2nd year student. I was getting ready for these exams all August long, though my parents were not very happy with my intention to skip the 1st year of the university. All this built up an enormous psychological strain, and the only way to get rid of it and to relax in a way was cycling. I had relatively much free time, so I cycled all around the city alone or with my friends. Thus, I managed to combine two of my most favorite activities: studying science and having outdoor fun.

From September I entered the Physics Department of Kyiv Taras Shevchenko university and passed all the 1st year exams with flying colors. Now I'm studying together with the sophomores. During the fall I was preparing for the TOEFL and SAT, and in January I passed the 3rd semester exams.

I'm looking forward to taking part in the upcoming National Olympiads and Young Physicist Tournaments as a jury member. To make a further contribution to the Olympiads and keep memories of my participation fresh, I give physics classes at my former school.


[Essays 1][How does MIT align with your goals (e.g., academic, personal, career, extracurricular, etc.)? (200-250 words)]

My main goal is to gain a deeper understanding of the beautiful phenomena surrounding us, and I'm sure MIT is the best place to study physics.

These are merely words, however I've already appreciated the usefulness of the MIT Open Courseware. I used these materials to prepare for the Olympiads and exams, and they helped me a lot! What I mostly like is explaining the content in connection with other topics and videos which reveal the phenomena in live action.

As I watched online, professors in MIT explain the material clearly and emphasize on crucial facts. If I won't be able to understand a concept by myself, I believe that the professor will find a minute to answer my question.

I'm really passionate about chatting on science topics with mates that understand me and share my passion. I watched videos of MIT projects: one in robotics, and another one about Fermilab. I'd love to enter such a project and make a contibution to the global science.

I like to share my knowledge with others, and leading a physics class in a school would provide me a lot of experience and maybe even a job.

In addition, I was pleased when I found clubs for all sports that I like - chess, table tennis and cycling. I'm looking forward to playing with new partners and cycling around America.

No other university provides all of these features, and MIT does. Then why should I hesitate?


[Essays 2][Please discuss why you are considering transferring from your current college or university. (200-250 words)]

I consider myself very motivated and aspired to self-improvement, and I have always tried to keep my skills and knowledge up to date.

In high school I was driven by the dream to become a winner of an international olympiad. I communicated a lot with my friend Taras. He was one year older, so it was a challenging task to tackle problems assigned to him. We cultivated a cooperative and a competitive atmosphere which lead us both to IPhO titles.

After my IPhO victories the olympiads were over for me as a contestant. Earlier I had wished to stay in Ukraine and continue contributing to Olympiads as a jury member. However, things have changed as time passed. I was inspired by the 1st place on the National Minor Academy of Sciences research competition, and I decided to focus on scientific research. I updated my views on the choice of university, this was when I found out that the best place for me was MIT.

MIT is one of the leading universities in the field of research and technology. I'm convinced that there I will join a productive community of helpful professors and devoted peers, which will continue inspiring me to advance in cutting-edge branches of physics. Supervision from professional physicists and best resources of information will be available, which, combined with my passion of physics, will give birth to lots of innovative ideas.

Therefore I'm looking forward to entering the MIT community, the best surrounding possible in the nowadays world.


[Essays 3][At MIT, we bring people together to better the lives of others. MIT students work to improve to their communities in different ways, from tackling the world’s biggest challenges to being a good friend. Describe one way in which you have contributed to your community, whether in your family, the classroom, your neighborhood, etc. (200-250 words)]

I like physics at large, but my greatest passion is taking part in Physics Olympiads. I can't participate in the Olympiads as a student anymore, still I promote their popularity in my former school and in my country in various ways.

My school tutor and mentor was inspired by my results in the Olympiads, and I convinced him to invite my other classmates to the preparation classes for IPhO in order to educate even more winners. As a result my classmate Sasha won a silver medal at IPhO, and now my another classmate Sergey is getting ready to take part in the forthcoming Olympiad. I regularly conduct lessons in my school by myself and share my knowledge and experience. I really like it and I'm proud that I may help future winners to reach their victories.

I've already made my humble contribution into science. I researched the Duboshinskii pendulum and found a new dependence between its parameters and its behavior. The paper was admitted by the Journal of Applied Physics, and I believe it will help physicists and engineers to design a device, for example an energy converter.

Also I decided to participate in the National Physics Olympiad and the Young Physicist Tournament as a jury member. I'll be helping the best tutors from all over Ukraine to evaluate and choose the students for the IPhO national team.


[Essays 4][Tell us about the most significant challenge you've faced or something that didn't go according to plan. How did you manage the situation? (200-250 words)]

Physics has been my passion for a long time, but not for all of my life. Before I started taking part in the Olympiads, I had seen myself in future as a chess player rather than as a scientist. I used to play chess with my father, and being 11 years old, I won my first tournament.

Just before the National Olympiad in Physics I participated in a qualification tournament for the National Chess Championship, and here my failures began. I missed the opening ceremony and hardly managed to be in time for the game without receiving a penalty. I won that game, however I drawed the next game and then I lost 3 times in a row. I was very upset with my performance, and tried hard to calm down and show my best. I had 2 victories and 2 draws after that, and finally scored 4.5 of 9. Imagine how disappointed I was when I found that 5.5 had been required to qualify for the National Championship.

The decision to change the direction of my efforts was very challenging. I understood that this would destroy all my efforts devoted to chess, and this hurt me. Nevertheless, I managed to overcome my disappointment and worked hard for 2 weeks to prepare for the Physics Olympiad, and this resulted in my final victory. As any life challenge, this one was full of failures, however in my opinion failures are perfect incentives to improve yourself.


[Additional Information 1][No application can meet the needs of every individual. If you think that additional information or material will give us a more thorough impression of you, please include it here.]

I feel that I need to explain why I entered the 2nd year of university immediately after high school and what circumstances brought me to that decision.

Firstly, I've always liked challenging myself. My tutor used to explain me the material of the 11th grade when I was in the 8th. I hardly understood anything at that time, but just a year later, in the 9th grade, I solved the 11th grade problems flawlessly. At the end of the 9th grade I started practicing with the IPhO problems. In our country only 11-graders are admitted to the IPhO team, though that didn't make me hesitate for a moment. It was quite difficult at first, but a year later I entered the IPhO team as the absolute winner of the selection exams, being 1 year younger than all of my teammates. As experience has shown, it's fruitful to load me with excessively tough material and give me time for practice, so that I'd acquire all the support information and develop intuitive understanding of the topic by myself. Getting ready for the 1st year exams was a very challenging goal, however I managed to achieve it: I passed all the exams with excellent grades.

In addition, I had many friends and acquaintances from the group that entered Taras Shevchenko University in 2015. I participated in the selection exams for IPhO and in the IPhO itself, and there I got in touch with 9 of my future close friends. Later I found out that 7 of them had entered the Physics department of Taras Shevchenko university. Next year the selection exams didn't bring as many friends into my life, and I dreamed to study with the previous group. That group had finished the 1st year when I was to enter the university. So, the only way to catch up with them was to pass the 1st year exams quickly and to join the group as a sophomore. I appreciate studying with people who I know well, and this was an incentive to do what I've done.

Also, I want to tell more about my hobbies.

The most beloved one is certainly cycling. My parents bought my first bike when I was three, and I cycled around the city at the age of 6. I practice this kind of sports in summer, and as it is too hot during the day, I prefer to go out in the evening. What is not common is that I prefer urban roads and avenues rather than calm and peaceful countryside. The city is so beautiful in the evening, and I have time to relax and think.

Another hobby that I developed in the early childhood is table tennis. I used to play with my parents, and after that with my peers, from the age of 8. I quickly gained gaming experience, and at the age of 10 I used to beat almost all of the locals. At that point I lost my interest, and started playing again with my groupmates only about 5 months ago.

Finally, I like practicing chess. During a period of my life I planned to become a professional chess player, and only physics managed to replace chess. However, none of my groupmates knows how to play chess, and I have little possibility to practice (playing online isn't as much interesting). I still remember how the figures move, but my skills are not in the best condition as they used to be a couple of years ago.
