At MIT, we bring people together to better the lives of others. MIT students work to improve to their communities in different ways, from tackling the world’s biggest challenges to being a good friend. Describe one way in which you have contributed to your community, whether in your family, the classroom, your neighborhood, etc.

[288]

Before I transferred to lyceum 27, our region hadn't had winners of the International Olympiads for a long time: the last one was in 2011. To say more, the team of my school hadn't won the National Young Physicists Tournament (NYPT) for several years, and the last golden medal by Ukraine at the International Olympiad in Physics (IPhO) was in 2007.

When I first came to my school, the educational process there was dedicated to mathematics rather than physics. I studied with my friend Taras in a rather individual manner, so that we two were the only ones whom our tutor prepared for the Olympiad. On the first hand, it was suitable for us, because the tutor devoted his time to us only. However, on the other hand, there were no other students preparing for the serious events, so our success would surely blink and lead our school to fame, but then vanish for a long time.

Firstly, I spent a lot of effort to write the projects and presentations for the NYPT. To continue, when I returned home from India with a silver medal, I convinced my physics teacher to invite other of my classmates to the course of preparation for the Olympiad. He was even more inspired when my team won the NYPT. The classes indended for the Olympiad were established, as a result my other classmate Sasha won a silver medal at the IPhO, and one more is being prepared at the time.

I can't say that I promoted physics in my school by myself, however I probably contributed to the development of physics in my school and maybe even in my country by inspiring tutors and students and showing them that everything is possible.

[248 B]

Before I transferred to lyceum 27, our region hadn't had winners of the International Olympiads for a long time. The last golden medal at the International Olympiad in Physics (IPhO) was awarded to Ukraine in 2007.

When I first came to my school, the educational process there was dedicated to mathematics rather than physics and my new classmate Taras and I were the only ones whom our tutor prepared for the Olympiad. We all hoped that our success would surely make our school famous in Ukraine. And it did happen.

After that I spent a lot of effort to write the projects and presentations for the National Young Physics Tournament (NYPT). When I returned with a silver medal for IPhO from India in 2015, I convinced my physics tutor to invite my other classmates to the course of preparation for IPhO. He was even more inspired when my team won NYPT. The special classes for preparing physics students to get ready as better as possible for IPhO were introduced. As a result my other classmate Sasha won a silver medal at IPhO, and now my another classmate Sergey is getting ready to take part in the forthcoming IPhO.

I did contribute to introducing extra classes in physics and gaining deeper insights into physics. I do hope I have done my best to promote the development of physics in my school and maybe even in my country by inspiring tutors and students and showing them that everything is possible.

[247 B-]

Before I transferred to lyceum 27, our region hadn't had winners of the International Olympiads for a long time. Moreover, the last golden medal at the International Olympiad in Physics (IPhO) was awarded to Ukraine in 2007.

When I first came to my school, the educational process there was dedicated to mathematics rather than physics and my new classmate Taras and I were the only ones whom our tutor prepared for the Olympiad. We all hoped that our success would make our school famous in Ukraine. And it did happen. However, the success would surely not be repeated soon without my further efforts.

When I returned with a silver medal for IPhO from India in 2015, I convinced my physics tutor to invite my other classmates to the course of preparation for IPhO. He was even more inspired when my team won the National Young Physics Tournament. Special classes for preparing physics students to get ready for IPhO were introduced. As a result my classmate Sasha won a silver medal at IPhO, and now my another classmate Sergey is getting ready to take part in the forthcoming Olympiad.

Though I did not teach the extra classes in physics by myself, I did contribute to introducing them and gaining deeper insights into physics. I do hope I have done my best to promote the development of physics in my school and maybe even in my country by inspiring teachers and students and showing them that everything is possible.

[245 B-B]

I like physics at large, but my greatest passion is taking part in Physics Olympiads. I can't participate in the Olympiads as a student anymore, still I promote their popularity in my former school and in my country in various ways.

When I first came to my school, the educational process there was dedicated to mathematics rather than physics and my new classmate Taras and I were the only ones whom our tutor prepared for the International Olympiad in Physics (IPhO). We all hoped that our success would make our school famous in Ukraine. And it did happen.

When I returned with a silver medal for IPhO from India in 2015, I convinced my physics tutor to invite my other classmates to the course for IPhO. As a result, special classes for preparing physics students to get ready for IPhO were introduced in my school. As a result my classmate Sasha won a silver medal at IPhO, and now my another classmate Sergey is getting ready to take part in the forthcoming Olympiad.

Also I decided to participate in the National Physics Olympiad as a jury member. I volunteer to conduct lessons for solving non-trivial problems with the most talented scholars in order to share my experience with them. I do hope I have been doing my best to promote the development of physics in my school and maybe even in my country by inspiring teachers and students and showing them that everything is possible.

[228 B-B-A vp]

I like physics at large, but my greatest passion is taking part in Physics Olympiads. I can't participate in the Olympiads as a student anymore, still I promote their popularity in my former school and in my country in various ways.

My school tutor and mentor was inspired by my results in the Olympiads, and I convinced him to invite my other classmates to the preparation classes for IPhO in order to educate even more winners. As a result my classmate Sasha won a silver medal at IPhO, and now my another classmate Sergey is getting ready to take part in the forthcoming Olympiad. I regularly conduct lessons in my school by myself and share my knowledge and experience. I really like it and I'm proud that I may help future winners to reach their victories.

I've already made my humble contribution into science. I researched the Duboshinskii pendulum and found a new dependence between its parameters and its behavior. The paper was admitted by the Journal of Applied Physics, and I believe it will help physicists and engineers to design a device, for example an energy converter.

Also I decided to participate in the National Physics Olympiad and the Young Physicist Tournament as a jury member. I'll be helping the best tutors from all over Ukraine to evaluate and choose the students for the IPhO national team.