Tell us about the most significant challenge you've faced or something that didn't go according to plan. How did you manage the situation?

[291]

The first and toughest challenge connected with my science career was the choice of the subject to study. When I began taking part in the Olympiads in the 8th grade, I succeeded not only in physics, but also in math and chemistry. I also met Sergey Lifyts, my future math teacher at school, who prepared me to the Olympiad in math and inspired me a lot. I started thinking seriously about a career of a mathematician and studying mathematics. However, the results of the Regional Olympiad were disappointing: I took the 1st place both in physics and chemistry, but a mere 3rd place in math.

I was still admitted to take part in the National Olympiad in math, but I lost a lot of self-confidence after the failure to win the Regional Olympiad. As a result, I thought about switching to physics. This was a challenging decision as I had to find a physics tutor and to prepare in short-term for the National Olympiad in another subject. However, I managed to accomplish both of these tasks. Zakhar Maizelis taught me the relevant material and trained me almost every day. The problems which Zakhar proposed were very difficult for me being a 8-grader, however they inspired me to study physics even more. Eventually such an intense preparation impacted the result: I won the 1st place at the National Olympiad in physics.

Further tuition was more smooth and regular. I transferred to the lyceum 27, which is considered the best scientific school in my region. There I met Ilya Gelfgat, who prepared me further together with Zakhar Maizelis. Nowadays I'm the winner of two International olympiads and I'm proud and happy that I've studied with such outstanding tutors as Zakhar and Ilya are.

[242 B alternative]

The first and the toughest challenge related to my science career was the choice of my major. When I took part in the Scholar Olympiads in the 8th grade, I managed to show good results both in physics and in mathematics. I met Sergey Lifyts, my future math teacher at school, who prepared me for the Olympiad in math. I started thinking seriously about a career of a mathematician and focused on mathematics. However, the results of the Regional Olympiad were disappointing: I won the 1st place in physics, but settled for only 3rd place in math.

I was still admitted to the National Olympiad in Mathematics, but I lost a lot of self-confidence after the failure to win the Regional Olympiad. As a result, I decided to switch to physics. This was a challenging decision as I had too little time left for finding a physics tutor to get ready for the National Olympiad in Physics.

Nevertheless, I managed to pull both of these tasks off. Dr. Zakhar Maizelis, my first physics tutor, trained me almost every day. The objectives set by Dr. Maizelis were too difficult for me that time, though they were perfect incentives to study physics even more. Such an intense preparation resulted in my 1st place at the National Olympiad in Physics.

After such a great success I realised that physics was definitely my cup of tea. Eventually, I went on with two consecutive International Olympiad titles.

[288, offtop???]

When I was in the 5th grade, I began practicing chess in a serious way. I took part in various tournaments and won a lot of local and regional championships. Eventually, I had been assigned the first category in chess just before entering the 8th grade. My parents and I were sure that I would become a professional chess player.

At the same time, I got to know about the National Olympiads in scholar subjects. I had already studied physics for a year, but I became indeed keen in physics only when I started preparing for the Olympiad. This process involved a lot of time and power, however I managed to maintain my skills both in physics and chess. By the end of the 9th grade I had taken the 1st place in two National Olympiads in physics and simultaneously I had been awarded the National Master of Sports Candidate title in chess.

The results in the Olympiads inspired me even more, so I decided to run for the International Physics Olympiad. Unfortunately, only 11-graders are admitted to the national team, so I had to participate among the older scholars. This meant not only that I competed with the smartest students in my country, but also that I had to learn the whole syllabus of the International Olympiad. There was not enough time for both physics and chess, and I chose physics. It was a challenging decision to abandon all the achievements and perspectives in chess, however it helped me bear fruit on the Olympiad. Nowadays I'm the winner of two International olympiads and chess is my biggest hobby. I do not want to become a chess professional any more, and I do not regret about my choice.

[244 A vp]

Physics has been my passion for a long time, but not for all of my life. Before I started taking part in the Olympiads, I had seen myself in future as a chess player rather than as a scientist. I used to play chess with my father, and being 11 years old, I won my first tournament.

Just before the National Olympiad in Physics I participated in a qualification tournament for the National Chess Championship, and here my failures began. I missed the opening ceremony and hardly managed to be in time for the game without receiving a penalty. I won that game, however I drawed the next game and then I lost 3 times in a row. I was very upset with my performance, and tried hard to calm down and show my best. I had 2 victories and 2 draws after that, and finally scored 4.5 of 9. Imagine how disappointed I was when I found that 5.5 had been required to qualify for the National Championship.

The decision to change the direction of my efforts was very challenging. I understood that this would destroy all my efforts devoted to chess, and this hurt me. Nevertheless, I managed to overcome my disappointment and worked hard for 2 weeks to prepare for the Physics Olympiad, and this resulted in my final victory. As any life challenge, this one was full of failures, though in my opinion failures are perfect incentives to improve yourself.