[2912]

I have been involved in a variety of educational and extracurricular activities since I left school.

In July 2016 I was to take part in the International Olympiad in Physics (IPhO), which I had been craving for a long time. I was admitted to a short course of preparation to the experimental exam of the Olympiad. The course was held in Kyiv in the middle of June and lasted for only 4 days, however it was a remarkable period of my life. I was enjoying my time with my friends from the national team for IPhO. Not only we conducted shared experiments and sought a deeper understanding of the background of natural effects that we were observing, but also we walked around the city and played various games in the evenings. Our preparation course coincided with the qualification exams for the International Astronomy Olympiad, so I found even more friends among the astronomers.

After my preparation course I had several weeks to practice solving problems for IPhO. I wasn't alone in my desire, my friend and classmate Sasha was also preparing for the Olympiad. We inspired and helped each other with the physics problems, and during breaks we went cycling around the place we used to live.

At last, the time of the Olympiad came. It was an unforgettable week! I met my teammates again and made lots of friends all around the world. I spent a marvellous time with my mates in CERN, the heart of global physics. We were taken to Lichtenstein and made a photo with its Minister of Foreign Affairs! We even found time to cycle around Zurich! I felt completely happy at the end when I was awarded gold, and a bit sad that this was the last olympiad I took part in as a pupil.

When I returned home after the Olympiad, I was full of self-confidence. I realized that I could pass the first year exams at the university during fall and start attending the lectures and seminars as a 2nd year student. I was getting ready for these exams all August long, though my parents were not very happy with my intention to skip the 1st year of the university. All this built up an enormous psychological strain, and the only way to get rid of it and to relax in a way was cycling. I had relatively much free time, so I cycled all around the city alone or with my friends. Thus, I managed to combine two of my most favorite activities: studying science and having outdoor fun.

From September I entered the Physics Department of Kyiv Taras Shevchenko university and passed all the 1st year exams with flying colors. Now I'm studying together with the sophomores. During the fall I was preparing for the TOEFL and SAT, and in January I passed the 3rd semester exams.

I'm looking forward to taking part in the upcoming National Olympiads and Young Physicist Tournaments as a jury member. To make a further contribution to the Olympiads and keep memories of my participation fresh, I give physics classes at my former school.